Hello, my name is Matthew Legere.
I am a language arts
teacher at River Valley Middle School
and I teach grade eight and grade seven.
I'm here today to talk about
universal design for learning
and how we can, make the curriculum
fit all students.
Sometimes the problem of curriculum
is that the students are made to fit
the curriculum, where we really need
to tailor learning experiences
for all the different types of students
that we have.
One thing that I like to do
when I teach kids
is have them realize
about their growth mindset
so they can realize their potential,
and that failure is, something
that they can embrace as an opportunity
to learn from their mistakes.
I believe teacher student connections
are important to support learning.
Another another important thing in UDL
is developing community.
Giving the kids
boundaries and expectations to help them
move towards success.
To make UDL really work in my class,
I like to use a flexible framework.
It's similar to the daily
five in elementary school.
My kids know it as the cafe,
and some days I give them a cafe menu
and they can choose
how they want to represent their learning
or whether they want to write,
whether they want to read.
And then they can take ownership
of their learning.
Differentiation
has the ability for students
to find their work more appealing.
It helps students represent
learning to their strengths
and also in a differentiated environment.
Students can set goals, monitor
their own learning.
And again, I would say giving choice
to these students,
also creates an opportunity
for enrichment and critical thinking.
If I was encouraging other teachers
to use universal
design for learning and,
differentiating their instruction,
it does take a little bit of patience
and organization.
And most of all, you really need to train
the students to buy in what you're doing.
And to have that growth mindset.
You know, you think about grade eight.
I kind of give them the mindset.
You're not really in any grade.
You're you are you and you're doing what
you're doing to your best of your ability.